--- 
title: How to setup a Jekyll Github site part 1
layout: post
disqusid: setup-jekyll-site-pt1
category: post
---


List of things you need.

1. Ruby (It has to be a least 2.0.0)
  * Linux (I don't think you can get 2.0.0 or high with apt/yum/emerge/pacman/brew with out compiling from the source) [Guide](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)
  * Windows (Installer) [x32](http://dl.bintray.com/oneclick/rubyinstaller/rubyinstaller-2.2.2.exe) [x64](http://dl.bintray.com/oneclick/rubyinstaller/rubyinstaller-2.2.2-x64.exe)
  * OS X (Check the Linux link on how to get it)
2. Ruby DevKit (only Windows)
 * Windows [x32](http://dl.bintray.com/oneclick/rubyinstaller/DevKit-mingw64-32-4.7.2-20130224-1151-sfx.exe) [x32](http://dl.bintray.com/oneclick/rubyinstaller/DevKit-mingw64-64-4.7.2-20130224-1432-sfx.exe)


---
First you'll need to install Ruby (If you have OS X you might have it). Once installed you'll need to check if you have the right version, run ``` ruby --version ``` in the terminal, it should say ``` ruby 2.2.2p95 ``` (it may be different on a non Windows OS).

(Windows users) Next you need to install Ruby DevKit. Run the .exe and it will promt you to choose a directory to extract it to, I extracted mine to ``` C:\Users\(PC/User Name)\DevKit ```, let that extract. Once done open the directory, and open you terminal (shift right click to open your context menu and click 'Open command window here'), run ``` ruby dk.rb init ``` which will generate a config.yml file. Open said file, you will see (if ruby didn't detect your installation).

<pre>
# This configuration file contains the absolute path locations of all
# installed Rubies to be enhanced to work with the DevKit. This config
# file is generated by the 'ruby dk.rb init' step and may be modified
# before running the 'ruby dk.rb install' step. To include any installed
# Rubies that were not automagically discovered, simply add a line below
# the triple hyphens with the absolute path to the Ruby root directory.
#
# Example:
#
# ---
# - C:/ruby19trunk
# - C:/ruby192dev
#
---
</pre>

Add ``` - C:/Ruby22 ``` for x32 or ``` - C:/Ruby22-x64 ``` for x64 below the ``` --- ``` (if you change the default install directory for Ruby change it to point to that folder). You'll then need to go back to the termial and run ``` ruby dk.rb install ```. Wait till that complets and it should be installed.

After you have Ruby (and DevKit) installed you'll need to install bundler. OPen the terminal and run ``` gem install bundler -v '= 1.5.1 ``` or else the json gem will break and you wont be able to install the github gem. Move to your git repo directory and make a ``` Gemfile ```, inside you should put.
<pre>
source 'http://rubygems.org'
gem 'github-pages'
</pre>
Go back to your terminal and run ``` bundle install ```, everything should work and it will start to install the gems required for Github Pages. Create a run.server.bat (Windows), inside put ``` bundle exec jekyll serve ```, or you can just run it from the terminal.

If everything runs smoothly you server should be started (end it with ctrl+c) and inside your git repo directory there should be a ``` _site ``` folder that means you've got Jekyll installed and running and ready to set up you website which I'll go over in the next part.


